howto.md, before:

# User Guide

Hi, welcome to the team!

If you're new to the company, it’s going to take a solid quarter to figure this place out. I understand the importance of first impressions, and I know you want to get a check in the win column, but this is a complex place full of equally complex humans. Take your time, meet everyone, go to every meeting, write things down, and ask all the questions–- especially about all those baffling acronyms and jargon.

One of the working relationships we need to define is ours. The following is a user guide for me and how I work. It captures what you can expect out of the average week working with me, how I like to work, and my north star principles.

My sole intent is to accelerate our working relationship with this short document.

## Our Average Week

We’ll have a one-on-one (1:1) meeting every week for 30 minutes. This meeting discusses topics of *substance*, not updates. 1:1s are one of the most important meeting in my calendar.

As a guideline, we can follow a 10:10:10 format. 10 minutes for you. 10 minutes for me. 10 minutes about the future. This is just a guideline. If a meeting ends with 25 minutes with your topic and 5 minutes with mine, I consider it a success!

Throughout the week as topics pop into your or my mind, we can post them in our Teams DM chat. The DM chat also becomes a handy historic record of what we’ve discussed. [TODO:Confirm]

I work a bit during odd hours (especially since I am currently located in a different time zone). I might message you things, but unless the thing says URGENT, it can always wait until work begins for you.

You can message me 24 hours a day. Same rule applies. Unless it says URGENT, I will respond back with normal importance.

I take vacations.

You should, too.

Disconnected from work is when I do some of my best work.

### About 1:1 Schedule

I will only reschedule our 1:1 meeting if there is a "crisis". By definition, crises do not happen all the time. If this happens, I will require your accommodation.

I will not cancel our meeting instance, unless if you or I are away on a vacation that lasts longer than the week.

## My North Star Principles

### About People

**Humans first.** I believe that happy, informed, and productive humans build fantastic product. I optimize for the humans. Ideological diversity is key to an effective team. All perspectives are relevant and important.

**Leadership comes from everywhere.** While I believe managers are an essential part of a scaling organization, I don’t believe they have a monopoly on leadership, and I work hard to build other constructs and opportunities in our teams for non-managers to effectively lead.

**It is important to me that humans are treated fairly.** I believe that most humans are trying to to do the right thing, but unconscious bias leads them astray. I work hard to understand and address my biases because I understand their ability to create inequity.

**I start with an assumption of positive intent.** When in doubt, I assume that the others are operating to the best of their ability, and are acting with the best interest of the company and their colleagues in mind. In my experience, this assumption proves to be correct 99.9% of the time and makes for a healthy work environment.

### About Stuff

**I see things as systems.** I reduce all complex things (including humans) into systems. I think in flowcharts. I take great joy in attempting to understand how these systems and flowcharts all fit together. When I see large or small inefficiencies in systems, I’d like to fix them with your help.

**I believe in the compounding awesomeness of continually fixing small things.** I believe quality assurance is everyone’s responsibility and there are "bugs" to be fixed everywhere… all the time.

**I have a bias towards data.** When encountering an opinion, I often ask for data that backs it up. I take a data driven approach.

## General Meeting Protocol

Since most of my work life is spent in meetings, I highly favor effective meetings. Time is a finite resource and I closely guard its usage.

My definition of an effective meeting includes an agenda and/or intended purpose, the appropriate amount of productive attendees, and a responsible party (referee) running the meeting to a schedule.

If it’s not clear to me why I am in a meeting, I will ask for clarification on my attendance.

If you send me an agenda or purpose a reasonable amount of time before a meeting, I will read it before the meeting and will have my questions/response ready.

If a meeting completes its intended purpose before it’s scheduled to end, let’s give the time back to everyone. If it’s clear the intended goal won’t be achieved in the allotted time, let’s stop the meeting before time is up and determine how to finish the meeting later.

Commit message:

Make text more generic
This way it is ready for consumption.

howto.md, after:

# User Guide

Hi, welcome to the team!

If you're new to the company, it’s going to take a solid quarter to figure this place out. I understand the importance of first impressions, and I know you want to get a check in the win column, but this is a complex place full of equally complex humans. Take your time, meet everyone, go to every meeting, write things down, and ask all the questions–- especially about all those baffling acronyms and jargon.

One of the working relationships we need to define is ours. The following is a user guide for me and how I work. It captures what you can expect out of the average week working with me, how I like to work, and my north star principles.

My sole intent is to accelerate our working relationship with this short document.

## Our Average Week

We’ll have a one-on-one (1:1) meeting every week for 30 minutes. This meeting discusses topics of *substance*, not updates. 1:1s are one of the most important meeting in my calendar.

As a guideline, we can follow a 10:10:10 format. 10 minutes for you. 10 minutes for me. 10 minutes about the future. This is just a guideline. If a meeting ends with 25 minutes with your topic and 5 minutes with mine, I consider it a success!

Throughout the week as topics pop into your or my mind, we can post them in our direct message (DM) chat. I consider this DM chat a perpetual asynchronous dialog between us. The DM chat also becomes a handy historic record of what we’ve discussed.

I work a bit during odd hours (especially since I am currently located in a different time zone). I might message you things, but unless the thing says URGENT, it can always wait until work begins for you.

You can message me 24 hours a day. Same rule applies. Unless it says URGENT, I will respond back with normal importance.

I take vacations.

You should, too.

Disconnected from work is when I do some of my best work.

### About 1:1 Schedule

I will only reschedule our 1:1 meeting if there is a "crisis". By definition, crises do not happen all the time. If this happens, I will require your accommodation.

I will not cancel our meeting instance, unless if you or I are away on a vacation that lasts longer than the week.

## My North Star Principles

### About People

**Humans first.** I believe that happy, informed, and productive humans build fantastic product. I optimize for the humans. Ideological diversity is key to an effective team. All perspectives are relevant and important.

**Leadership comes from everywhere.** While I believe managers are an essential part of a scaling organization, I don’t believe they have a monopoly on leadership, and I work hard to build other constructs and opportunities in our teams for non-managers to effectively lead.

**It is important to me that humans are treated fairly.** I believe that most humans are trying to to do the right thing, but unconscious bias leads them astray. I work hard to understand and address my biases because I understand their ability to create inequity.

**I start with an assumption of positive intent.** When in doubt, I assume that the others are operating to the best of their ability, and are acting with the best interest of the company and their colleagues in mind. In my experience, this assumption proves to be correct 99.9% of the time and makes for a healthy work environment.

### About Stuff

**I see things as systems.** I reduce all complex things (including humans) into systems. I think in flowcharts. I take great joy in attempting to understand how these systems and flowcharts all fit together. When I see large or small inefficiencies in systems, I’d like to fix them with your help.

**I believe in the compounding awesomeness of continually fixing small things.** I believe quality assurance is everyone’s responsibility and there are "bugs" to be fixed everywhere… all the time.

**I have a bias towards data.** When encountering an opinion, I often ask for data that backs it up. I take a data driven approach.

## General Meeting Protocol

Since most of my work life is spent in meetings, I highly favor effective meetings. Time is a finite resource and I closely guard its usage.

My definition of an effective meeting includes an agenda and/or intended purpose, the appropriate amount of productive attendees, and a responsible party (referee) running the meeting to a schedule.

If it’s not clear to me why I am in a meeting, I will ask for clarification on my attendance.

If you send me an agenda or purpose a reasonable amount of time before a meeting, I will read it before the meeting and will have my questions/response ready.

If a meeting completes its intended purpose before it’s scheduled to end, let’s give the time back to everyone. If it’s clear the intended goal won’t be achieved in the allotted time, let’s stop the meeting before time is up and determine how to finish the meeting later.
